NLP/Coding.md, before:

- The benefit of using AutoTokenizer is that it abstracts away the need to know the specific tokenizer class associated with each pre-trained model. Instead, it provides a convenient interface for loading tokenizers in a consistent manner across different models.

- **OpenRouter** is a platform that provides access to various models, including but not limited to GPT models from OpenAI.

------------------------------------------

- If you are setting temperature=0.0, it typically means you want deterministic output, which should not be used unless do_sample=True is also set. By setting temperature to a non-zero value and do_sample=True, you can generate more diverse outputs, or simply remove the temperature parameter if you don't intend to use sampling.

----------------------------------
 - **Setting the max_length parameter in the model.generate() method to be equal to the input length**: When the max_length parameter is set to a value that equals the length of the input_ids being passed in, it means there's no room allowed for the model to add any tokens, leading to the model generating nothing.
   
   To solve this issue, you need to ensure that max_length is greater than the length of your input_ids to give space for the model to generate a response. Alternatively, you can use the max_new_tokens parameter instead of max_length to specify how many new tokens you want the model to generate beyond the input length.

- **For Berts**: Make sure that the total length, including both the input and the maximum number of new tokens (max_new_tokens), does not exceed 512. If you're at the limit already with your input, you can't add more tokens without exceeding this boundary.
  
  Handling Input Length:
  Truncate or Segment Inputs: Before tokenizing the inputs, you should ensure they do not exceed 512 tokens. If they do, consider strategies like truncating the input or splitting it into manageable segments.

```python
result = {}
print(type(inputs))
for index, row in enumerate(inputs[20:]):
    print("salam")
    prompt = prompt_enhancements.format(order=row['foods'], comment=row['comment'], ingredients=row['materials'])
    messages = [{"role": "system", "content": f"{system_role}"},
                {"role": "user", "content": f"{prompt}"}]

    tokenized_inputs = tokenizer(messages, max_length=512, truncation=True, return_tensors="pt")

    # Generate response, make sure to handle sampling and temperature correctly
    outputs = model.generate(tokenized_inputs.input_ids, max_length=512, temperature=1.0, do_sample=True)
    text = tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True)

    # Save the response
    result[index + 90] = text  # Adjust the index if necessary
    print(f"{index + 90} Done.")

```

-----------------------------------------

- how to use two different methods of a hypothetical tokenizer in a natural language processing (NLP) framework, each designed for distinct types of tasks?

### 1. Use **tokenizer()** for:

- **Method Usage**: The `tokenizer()` method is a general-purpose function used for preparing text for various NLP tasks. It is likely capable of converting raw text into a format that machine learning models can process, such as tokenizing strings into words or subwords, and possibly converting these tokens into numerical IDs that models can understand.
    
- **Applicability**: The method is versatile and suitable for a broad range of NLP tasks, including but not limited to text classification (e.g., sentiment analysis, topic classification) and entity recognition (identifying names, locations, etc. in text). These tasks generally require standard tokenization where the text is segmented and indexed without needing any specialized formatting.

### 2. Use **tokenizer.apply_chat_template()** for:

- **Method Usage**: The `tokenizer.apply_chat_template()` method seems to be a specialized function of the tokenizer, designed to format and preprocess text specifically for dialogue-based models. This might involve applying a template or structure that aligns with how dialogue data is expected to be formatted in these models, such as framing statements and responses in a conversational context.

---------------------------------------

**Modularizing a colab noteook** means to create separate scripts (as python classes) for each task to make it able to be imported and used in other scripts.

- ![[Pasted image 20240523153002.png]]
- ![[Pasted image 20240523153100.png]]
- ![[Pasted image 20240523153224.png]]

Example usage:
- ![[Pasted image 20240523153352.png]]
-------------------------------

The __init__.py file makes directories to be used as libraries:

Commit message:

vault backup: 2024-05-23 15:42:25
Affected files:
NLP/Coding.md

NLP/Coding.md, after:

- The benefit of using AutoTokenizer is that it abstracts away the need to know the specific tokenizer class associated with each pre-trained model. Instead, it provides a convenient interface for loading tokenizers in a consistent manner across different models.

- **OpenRouter** is a platform that provides access to various models, including but not limited to GPT models from OpenAI.

------------------------------------------

- If you are setting temperature=0.0, it typically means you want deterministic output, which should not be used unless do_sample=True is also set. By setting temperature to a non-zero value and do_sample=True, you can generate more diverse outputs, or simply remove the temperature parameter if you don't intend to use sampling.

----------------------------------
 - **Setting the max_length parameter in the model.generate() method to be equal to the input length**: When the max_length parameter is set to a value that equals the length of the input_ids being passed in, it means there's no room allowed for the model to add any tokens, leading to the model generating nothing.
   
   To solve this issue, you need to ensure that max_length is greater than the length of your input_ids to give space for the model to generate a response. Alternatively, you can use the max_new_tokens parameter instead of max_length to specify how many new tokens you want the model to generate beyond the input length.

- **For Berts**: Make sure that the total length, including both the input and the maximum number of new tokens (max_new_tokens), does not exceed 512. If you're at the limit already with your input, you can't add more tokens without exceeding this boundary.
  
  Handling Input Length:
  Truncate or Segment Inputs: Before tokenizing the inputs, you should ensure they do not exceed 512 tokens. If they do, consider strategies like truncating the input or splitting it into manageable segments.

```python
result = {}
print(type(inputs))
for index, row in enumerate(inputs[20:]):
    print("salam")
    prompt = prompt_enhancements.format(order=row['foods'], comment=row['comment'], ingredients=row['materials'])
    messages = [{"role": "system", "content": f"{system_role}"},
                {"role": "user", "content": f"{prompt}"}]

    tokenized_inputs = tokenizer(messages, max_length=512, truncation=True, return_tensors="pt")

    # Generate response, make sure to handle sampling and temperature correctly
    outputs = model.generate(tokenized_inputs.input_ids, max_length=512, temperature=1.0, do_sample=True)
    text = tokenizer.decode(outputs[0], skip_special_tokens=True)

    # Save the response
    result[index + 90] = text  # Adjust the index if necessary
    print(f"{index + 90} Done.")

```

-----------------------------------------

- how to use two different methods of a hypothetical tokenizer in a natural language processing (NLP) framework, each designed for distinct types of tasks?

### 1. Use **tokenizer()** for:

- **Method Usage**: The `tokenizer()` method is a general-purpose function used for preparing text for various NLP tasks. It is likely capable of converting raw text into a format that machine learning models can process, such as tokenizing strings into words or subwords, and possibly converting these tokens into numerical IDs that models can understand.
    
- **Applicability**: The method is versatile and suitable for a broad range of NLP tasks, including but not limited to text classification (e.g., sentiment analysis, topic classification) and entity recognition (identifying names, locations, etc. in text). These tasks generally require standard tokenization where the text is segmented and indexed without needing any specialized formatting.

### 2. Use **tokenizer.apply_chat_template()** for:

- **Method Usage**: The `tokenizer.apply_chat_template()` method seems to be a specialized function of the tokenizer, designed to format and preprocess text specifically for dialogue-based models. This might involve applying a template or structure that aligns with how dialogue data is expected to be formatted in these models, such as framing statements and responses in a conversational context.

---------------------------------------

**Modularizing a colab noteook** means to create separate scripts (as python classes) for each task to make it able to be imported and used in other scripts.

- ![[Pasted image 20240523153002.png]]
- ![[Pasted image 20240523153100.png]]
- ![[Pasted image 20240523153224.png]]

Example usage:
- ![[Pasted image 20240523153352.png]]
-------------------------------

The __init__.py file makes directories to be used as libraries.

- In the main folder of the whole project, including several module files, we create the init.py file and write the name of the modules there like this:
