DevOps/Logical volume.md, before:


A logical volume (LV) is a storage device management concept within the Linux Logical Volume Manager (LVM). It abstracts and simplifies the management of storage devices, allowing for more flexible disk management compared to traditional partitioning methods.

### Key Concepts

1. **Logical Volume (LV)**:
    
    - A logical volume is a virtual disk partition created from a volume group (VG) that can span multiple physical volumes (PVs).
    - It acts like a regular disk partition, but it is not restricted to the physical limitations of a single disk. Instead, it can be resized, extended, and moved across different physical volumes.
2. **Volume Group (VG)**:
    
    - A volume group is a pool of storage that combines multiple physical volumes into a single administrative unit.
    - Logical volumes are allocated from the space within a volume group.
3. **Physical Volume (PV)**:
    
    - A physical volume refers to a physical storage device (e.g., hard disk, SSD) or a partition on such a device that has been initialized for use with LVM.
    - PVs provide the actual storage capacity that is pooled together in a volume group.

----------------------------------------

```shell
wget https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/ubuntu2204/x86_64/cuda-keyring_1.1-1_all.debsudo dpkg -i cuda-keyring_1.1-1_all.debsudo apt-get updatesudo apt-get -y install cuda-toolkit-12-5
```

- **`wget` Command**: This retrieves the `cuda-keyring` package from NVIDIA's server, which contains the GPG keys required to authenticate other CUDA packages.
    
- **`sudo dpkg -i` Command**: This installs the downloaded keyring package. The `dpkg` command is used to install, remove, and manage packages on Debian-based systems like Ubuntu.
    
- **`sudo apt-get update` Command**: Refreshes the repository indexes. This is important after adding new repositories or keyrings to ensure that the package database is up to date.
    
- **`sudo apt-get -y install cuda-toolkit-12-5` Command**: Installs the CUDA Toolkit. The `-y` flag automatically answers "yes" to all prompts, allowing the installation to proceed without manual intervention.

-----------------

### Operating Systems and Package Managers

In the case of operating systems like Linux, a keyring is often used to manage authentication keys for secure package management. For example, when you install software from a repository, the package manager (such as APT in Ubuntu) checks the digital signature of the package against a list of trusted keys stored in a keyring. This ensures that the software you are installing is authentic and hasn't been tampered with.

- **Example**: The `cuda-keyring` package you mentioned in your previous query installs NVIDIA's GPG keys used to verify CUDA packages sourced from NVIDIA's repository.

--------------------------

The point is, apt downloads the files to the root directory.
If the root has little capacity due to "logical volume" settings, use this:

Commit message:

vault backup: 2024-07-03 19:12:40
Affected files:
DevOps/Logical volume.md

DevOps/Logical volume.md, after:


A logical volume (LV) is a storage device management concept within the Linux Logical Volume Manager (LVM). It abstracts and simplifies the management of storage devices, allowing for more flexible disk management compared to traditional partitioning methods.

### Key Concepts

1. **Logical Volume (LV)**:
    
    - A logical volume is a virtual disk partition created from a volume group (VG) that can span multiple physical volumes (PVs).
    - It acts like a regular disk partition, but it is not restricted to the physical limitations of a single disk. Instead, it can be resized, extended, and moved across different physical volumes.
2. **Volume Group (VG)**:
    
    - A volume group is a pool of storage that combines multiple physical volumes into a single administrative unit.
    - Logical volumes are allocated from the space within a volume group.
3. **Physical Volume (PV)**:
    
    - A physical volume refers to a physical storage device (e.g., hard disk, SSD) or a partition on such a device that has been initialized for use with LVM.
    - PVs provide the actual storage capacity that is pooled together in a volume group.

**Mount the Logical Volume**:

```shell
sudo mount /dev/vg_data/lv_data /mnt/data
```

This command is useful in scenarios where you need to dynamically increase the storage capacity of a logical volume without downtime or data loss.

```shell
sudo resize2fs /dev/vg_data/lv_data
```

----------------------------------------


```shell
wget https://developer.download.nvidia.com/compute/cuda/repos/ubuntu2204/x86_64/cuda-keyring_1.1-1_all.debsudo dpkg -i cuda-keyring_1.1-1_all.debsudo apt-get updatesudo apt-get -y install cuda-toolkit-12-5
```

- **`wget` Command**: This retrieves the `cuda-keyring` package from NVIDIA's server, which contains the GPG keys required to authenticate other CUDA packages.
    
- **`sudo dpkg -i` Command**: This installs the downloaded keyring package. The `dpkg` command is used to install, remove, and manage packages on Debian-based systems like Ubuntu.
    
- **`sudo apt-get update` Command**: Refreshes the repository indexes. This is important after adding new repositories or keyrings to ensure that the package database is up to date.
    
- **`sudo apt-get -y install cuda-toolkit-12-5` Command**: Installs the CUDA Toolkit. The `-y` flag automatically answers "yes" to all prompts, allowing the installation to proceed without manual intervention.

-----------------

### Operating Systems and Package Managers

In the case of operating systems like Linux, a keyring is often used to manage authentication keys for secure package management. For example, when you install software from a repository, the package manager (such as APT in Ubuntu) checks the digital signature of the package against a list of trusted keys stored in a keyring. This ensures that the software you are installing is authentic and hasn't been tampered with.

- **Example**: The `cuda-keyring` package you mentioned in your previous query installs NVIDIA's GPG keys used to verify CUDA packages sourced from NVIDIA's repository.

--------------------------

The point is, apt downloads the files to the root directory.
If the root has little capacity due to "logical volume" settings, use this:
