

Session authentication - token authentication??
indexing for logging?
"file" field in the values.yaml filefor logging?
status codes meaning? 
proxy?
vpn?
vps?

making a vpn- system proxy - tunel - reverse proxy

link that are generate and we search them 

Bot warden
nginx
apache

URL , URI


In case the UserComment directly shares sentiments about specific food ingredients,

you can rate the corresponding food containing those ingredients, utilizing the FoodIngredients list tha contains each food with its ingredients.

If UserComment does not include any specific review for any of the food ordered, set the corresponding food score to 'Nan'









  

1. Handle Mixed Sentiments:

If UserComment contains mixed sentiments (e.g., positive followed by negative), consider the overall tone of the comment at its conclusion. Focus on how the UserComment ends to determine if it’s generally positive or negative. This prevents confusion over mixed messages within the comment.

  

2. Separate Service Quality Comments:

The UserComment may contain sentiments about each of the foods or the services, or both. First, decide whether the UserComment is anything related to these predefined service_classified categorie: '[Delivery time, Quality of packaging, Cost of packaging, Cost per value of foods, Overall quality, Staff behavior, Food temperature, Delivered food not as ordered]'.

If the UserComment is related to one or more of these service_classified categorie, then extract and analyze parts of UserComment that pertain specifically to those service_classified categorie (separating them from comments about food quality), and attribute those extracted parts of the comment to part_of_comment.

After that, assign a score (an integer between 0 and 5) to that service based on part_of_comment.

If a service-related UserComment doesn’t fit any category or if the sentiment about the service is unclear, set 'part_of_comment', 'service_rate', and 'service_classified' to 'Nan'. Note that there might be more than one service mentioned in the comment.

  

3. Rate Food:

All the food titles mentioned in the UserOrder, must each receive a score (an integer between 0 and 5), considering Handle Mixed Sentiments (number 4 rule).

  

4. Evaluate Food Temperature:

If UserComment mentions the temperature of the food, identify which food is being discussed and determine whether it is typically served hot or cold.

For example, fast foods and main dishes are often served hot, while most drinks and salads are served cold.

Then, evaluate if the UserComment indicates a satisfactory temperature. For example, the model should asign a low rate for a dish that is mentioned to be 'cold' in the UserComment, but it is often served hot.

But id the meal is often served 'cold' and it is mentioned to be 'cold' in the UserComment, the meal should gets a high rate.
